All right. So, in the last lesson, we
talked about the claude ND files,
otherwise known as memory, which Claude
code uses when you're asking it to do
something. Now, it's able to do this
because the claw.md file, gets added
automatically as context to any claw
code session like this one we've got
going on now. But what do we mean when
we say context? Well, just like in
conversations with real people,
responses are more accurate and
appropriate from AI models when you
provide additional relevant information
or context to your prompts. Imagine I
just said the word banana to you in a
conversation without any additional
context. You probably wouldn't know how
to react and you would most likely think
I'm quite strange. But if I said to you,
first of all, my favorite fruit is a
banana, then I've added context to that
word, and you might still think I'm
strange, but at least you know why I'm
saying the word banana, and you could
even respond with your own favorite
fruit. The same is true when you're
having a conversation with Claude Code
or any other AI powered chat. If I just
told Claude Code to fix the link, it
probably won't know where to start or
what link I'm referring to or even
what's wrong with the link. But if I
referenced a specific file or component
where that broken link is as context to
the prompt, then Claude's got a much
better chance of knowing what I'm going
on about. And the results are going to
be much better because now instead of
having to scan the entire codebase for
some kind of broken link that it doesn't
know about, it's going to find it right
away in the file we added as context. So
we can manually add files as context to
Claude code by using the at symbol
followed by a path to the file. For
example, I could say at source and then
back slashcomponents
and then also back slash UI. And as I'm
writing this, notice that we get some
file options that appear down here,
which I can just cycle through using my
arrow keys to select a file. So I'm
going to select this button component
file and I'm going to shift on it so
that it gets added to my chat right
here. So now inside that button
component, we have different variants,
right? like primary, success, warning,
etc. I'm going to add two more, which is
just black and white variants for high
contrast. So, I'm going to say add a
black variant with white text and a
white variant with black text. And then
uh with black text rather, sorry. And
then I'm going to hit enter. And because
we provided the file as context, it's
going to know to look at the variants in
that file and add them in. If we didn't
add the context, then it wouldn't know
maybe which file or components to add
the variants to. And now you can see
it's asking us to make changes, which
I'm going to accept. And then if I open
up the file in a moment when it's
completed this, we should hopefully see
the black and white variance. So, let me
cross this off. Oh, it's asking to make
another change. So, let me press yes to
do that.
And now, if we open this file, we should
be able to see those two new variants.
Another way to give Claude code context
of the file that you want to work on is
by opening the file itself and just
putting your cursor somewhere inside it.
And when we do that, you can see the
file name underneath the chat window
over here, which tells us it's been
added to the context. Now, if you close
that file, well, it's still there. But
that's because the cursor is still kind
of active inside that file. But if you
open a new file, just put your cursor
inside that one instead, then it's going
to update over here as well. Now, you
can only add one file to the context
this way, but you can add multiple files
by using the at symbol several times in
the prompt itself. Also, you can select
a portion of code inside a file, and
it's going to hone in and use that
little section you've highlighted as
context. And you can see that down here
in the chat as well, that this amount of
lines is selected.
So, you can also add references using
this at sign to claw. ND files. So if I
wanted to reference a schema file for
example for whenever Claude works with
data modules, I could do and it would
load that file up into the context then
or I could reference a testing config
file in here or anything else I think
Claude Code should know when making
edits to certain parts of the code. So
that's how we add files as context using
the at sign or opening the file
manually. But we can also add images as
context too. So, I've got a picture of a
button over here with a 3D effect, and I
want Claude Code to apply that kind of
3D effect to our buttons. So, what I'm
going to do is drag and drop the button
file into the chat session over here.
And now, it's added as context. Then,
what I'm going to do is paste in a
prompt, and it says, can you update the
button design? Let's just make this more
specific. We'll say button design in the
button
component
to look more like the button on this
image with a 3D effect keeping all of
the color variants. I'm also going to
reference the file in context as well by
saying at source and then we want to go
into components and let's do backslash
components to do that. And then we want
the button file down here. So, I'm going
to tap on that to add it to the context
as well. Then press enter. All right.
So, I'm going to allow it to make these
edits.
And again, it wants to make some more
edits. I'm going to press yes to allow
it to do this. All right. And now it's
changed it. Okay. And now in a browser,
we can see those buttons look a lot more
3D. It's added that 3D effect. It's also
added, I think, a subtle gradient going
from top to bottom. So, yeah, it's done
a really good job there. So, we've seen
now how to add context to prompts, which
essentially gives Claude code more
information about any given task. So,
adding context when it's needed is
really important. However, adding too
much unnecessary context can lead to
less accurate results. Now, on a prompt
byprompt basis, you're probably not
going to intentionally do that. If
you're working on the button component,
you most likely won't add 50 other
unrelated files as context. However, it
can happen unintentionally. So let me
explain how first of all and then we'll
look at some ways to combat that. So
imagine we're working on a feature like
a shopping basket and we provide clawed
code with a bunch of different prompts
and files as context over several
different messages inside the session.
Well, all of those files and messages
including the AI model responses.
They're all stored in context in the
current chat session. And that means
whenever you're sending new prompts,
Claude codes got the entire chat history
plus any additional context you manually
added like files as context for the
session. Now, that's okay while we're
working on this feature because it is
probably useful for Claude to know about
that history and the changes that it's
been making. But imagine we then get
sidetracked because the button doesn't
quite look right inside the shopping
basket and we start asking Claude code
to make UI changes to the button
component which is I suppose a
completely separate thing to the
shopping basket. Yes, we might use the
button on that section but largely the
basket page is unrelated to the button
component. So, if we started working on
the button component in this chat,
Claude code's going to still have all of
that previous chat and file context
about the basket page, which in respect
to working on the button is pretty
useless. And we're essentially giving
Claude a bunch of useless context to
read while it's working on the button.
And that could confuse him. It might
even start making inline edits to the
button itself on the basket page, which
isn't what we wanted. So, when we're
working on a feature with claude code,
it's always best to keep the context
clean and focused on whatever we're
working on and not let it get bloated
with information that it doesn't need.
So, how do we combat this? Well, there's
a few ways. First of all, you could just
exit the chat using the forward/exit
command and then start a new one in the
terminal by typing claude again and
hitting enter. And then from inside any
session, you can resume all the previous
sessions by using the forward slashres
command, which I'm going to show you
later. But if you don't want to do that
and you want to stay inside the same
session, you've got essentially three
options. You can use the clear command
and that's going to clear the entire
session history and context back to its
original state. It will keep the claw MD
files as context, but anything else that
you manually added in the chat and any
conversation history that all gets
cleared. So, it's like deleting the chat
and starting a fresh one, which might be
useful if you fully completed a task and
you want to move on to the next one. The
other option or one other option should
I say is to use a command called forward
slashcompact. And this tells claw to
look through the entire session history
and context and compact it into a small
summary and then just delete the rest.
So that small summary of the session
history will remain in the session
context, but the rest gets deleted. So
it reduces all of the context a lot. It
squashes it right down. Now, I find this
useful if I'm working on a single
feature, but the session starts to get
really long and the context bloated. And
then I can just carry on with the same
feature in the same session using that
compact summary, and it's still going to
be there as context. The third option is
to tap escape twice in the chat window.
And this lets you essentially rewind to
a previous point in the session and
remove all later chats and files from
the context. So, this could be useful if
you were working on a feature, maybe you
got sidetracked by a bug or something
else and you wanted to trim all of that
last bit from the history in the
context. So, you could do that. So,
that's three approaches to keeping the
context clean and focused. Now, let me
show you them in action. All right. So,
first of all, let's try double escape.
So, press it twice like so. And you can
see I can go back in the chat. Now, I
cleared it earlier on. So that's why you
see this clear and that's the beginning.
But you could go back to an earlier
point in the chat by just pressing enter
on any one of these. Now I'm going to
escape to get out of this because I
don't want to do that just yet. Uh the
next one I'm going to try is compact. So
I'm going to use that compact command.
And you can see also you can give this
an additional argument right here or
instructions as to how you would like
this compacted. I'm not going to do
that. I'm just going to press enter.
And then you can see it's created a
summary right here. And we can now have
that in our context. But if we now press
double escape, you can see this is the
only thing left. So we have this which
is the original one and then the compact
command. So all the history has actually
been cleared except for this bit of
context that remains in the session. All
right. So let me escape out of this. And
then finally I'm going to use the clear
command like so. And you can see here it
says clear conversation history and free
up context. I'm going to press enter and
that's going to get rid of everything.
So now if I press double escape, you can
see there's no history in the chat.
Awesome. I also mentioned that one
option would be to exit out of the
current chat using for/exit and then
just pressing enter. So that's going to
stop the session and dump you back in
the regular terminal interface again.
And if you start Claude up again by
typing Claude and then hitting enter,
it's going to start on a brand new chat
session with zero context added to it
except for that claw md file. So you can
start working on your new feature
straight away. And then if you wanted to
resume a previous chat session, you can
use the forward slashres command and
then press enter. And that's going to
show you all of the current chat
sessions you have going on with Claude
Code for this project, including when
you last used that session, how many
messages are in it, uh the branch it's
working on, and a summary. So, I could
select one of these, and then I get put
back into that chat session with all of
its previous context intact. Now, there
is one more small thing I want to
quickly mention when it comes to
context, and that is something called
the context window. And the context
window represents how much context an AI
model or tool can handle at once. It's
measured in tokens where one token is I
think about three or four characters in
a word. Now the context window is
generally different depending on which
tools or models that you're using in
Claude code. The context window is
200,000 tokens at this point in time
which is a fair amount. But if your
sessions last a long time, have a lot of
manually added context and back and
forths, then that context window is
eventually going to fill up. Claude Code
actually tells you when you're
approaching this limit as well by giving
you a little message. And when that
happens, I found the results to drop off
a little bit. So if your session context
is ever getting a bit bloated, remember
those three things that we can do to
reduce it. We can double escape to trim
out any recent history and go back to a
previous part of the chat session. We
can use the forward slashcompact command
to summarize the context and
significantly reduce it. Or we can use
the forward slashclear command to
completely clear the entire context and
start a fresh. So then I think that's
enough about context for now and in the
next lesson we're going to talk about
tools and permissions.